= Flags of the World

In the Bootstrap: Flags pathway, students will use knowledge of
functions, function composition, transformations in the plane,
and coordinates to build compound images. One provided activity
is to produce flags for different countries, and teachers have
extended this idea in many ways to have students produce custom
emoji, a graphic of their name, a personal logo design, and more.
The key outcome is that students reinforce their understanding of
functions alongside spatial relationships and reasoning with
two-dimensional shapes through practice and then through a
graphical capstone activity at the end.

Several elements of the path are key, foundational elements of
many Bootstrap Paths. If your students have a strong
understanding of circles of evaluation, contracts, or defining
values, you can review them as you feel necessary without doing
full lessons. These are all exercised heavily when using the
image functions in the lessons that build up to Flags 1.

== Themes

A theme that exercises students’ understanding of contracts is
that *Images are values* and due to this, *Images can be
arguments to functions* and *Images can be defined values*. This
theme runs through most of the image functions, is an instance of
function composition, and is fundamental to building compound
images.

Another theme is *defining values*. When creating compound
images, the expressions that create them can get large, spanning
many lines. A key organizational principle in both math and
programming is to *give names to the results of expressions* to
make other expressions and computations simpler. There are a lot
of moments to discuss the organization of expressions as students
build up bigger images.

== Staging

The path is staged with an intermediate milestone and a final
capstone. In the first milestone, students don’t yet interact
with coordinates, and focus first on creating and transforming
individual images (rotate, flip, scale), then composing them in
terms of relative positions (above, beside, overlaid on top).
It’s important to emphasize just how many flags can be built by
putting images above and beside one another without using
specific coordinates. You can get pretty creative even at the
first milestone.

After this intermediate milestone, students then learn how to
arrange images on top of one another based on specific x/y
coordinates. This combines the practice with function composition
along with review of the coordinate plane. With overlaying by
coordinates in hand, students can more easily build complex
images with off-center overlaid parts and more, and get quite
creative.

== Some stuff for demo only

Pathways can refer to individual pages in workbook:
@worksheet-link{flags-of-the-world/workbook-pages/flags-of-the-world-wbp.adoc}

They can also refer to exercises:
@worksheet-link{flags-of-the-world/exercises/update-player.adoc}

Also, entire lesson plans:
@worksheet-link{flags-of-the-world/index.html}.
(Late request by Jen: link is right, but Page number should go)

@lessons-in-pathway

@link{resources/teacheronly.adoc, Teacher-Only Resources}

@link{workbook/workbook.pdf, Click here for the Student Workbook}


